Welcome back.
So so far in the last couple of videos we've taken a look our toll variables can store data in HP.
We've looked our numbers or integers.
And taken a look at how we can store them into variables.
So an integer can have very different types and you can see some examples such as a positive number
a negative number or hexadecimal number.
We've also taken a look at strings which you know is a series of characters and they can play the strings
in different ways such as single or double quotes.
But there's also many different types of data that you can use in P HP.
For example there's a boulis on a boony on is a simple true or false.
So for example we can see if some fin returns true and if it does we can perform a certain action.
And as sort of a data type such as a race which will look out in this section But next when we take
a look at some HP operators.
So to begin where I take a look at some arithmetic operators so let's use our number example that we
looked at before.
So number one equal to 100 a second variable of number two equal to two hundred.
And then can do an echo.
So I call a number on slawson on the two.
And will she get by or 300 in the browser.
So this plus symbol is a arithmetic operator.
It adds the value of number one to number two.
Well can also take these values away with the take away symbol.
So get minus or negative one hundred.
Well can also multiply two MP HP we need to use the Star symbol.
So we get the value of 20000.
We can also divide with the faulds Flush.
And we can also find out the remainder so we can do that with the per cent symbol and the percent symbol
gives us the remainder after the division and to do this we need to change the values to something more
suitable.
So no one equals 10.
And number two is equal to free.
And then refreshen we should get the value of one.
And the reason for that is because fragos into 10 free times and then leaves a value of worn as a remainder.
So let's take a look at more examples on the w free schools website.
That a be free schools.
An MP HB operators.
And then a scroll down.
So we looked at some of the arithmetic operators which you can see here.
There's also assignment operators.
So the most basic assignment operator is the equal symbol.
And we've looked at these in previous videos.
So we signed a value of 10 to the variable name of number one.
There's also other assignment operators such as addition subtraction multiplication division and the
modulus which is the remainder.
There's also comparison and logical operators.
So you can check if two values are equal or less than are greater than but we'll take a look at these
in more detail in the if El stayman section.
We can also increment and decrement a value.
So an increment for example of value by one.
And decrements value by 1.
So we'll look out increment and decrement operators more in the loop's video.
But for now let's take a look at a few basic examples of how good the news and so hard a variable called
no.
And we simply set this to the value of one.
And if we echo this the browser would just get the value of one printed book and increment its value
by one every time.
So any variable name of number and then using plus plus.
So save that.
So now the value of ONE should be incremented by one and then we should get printed to the browser.
The value of two so refresh.
Sorry a semicolon on the end of the.
And then refresh.
And then with the one off there and save.
So refresh your browser and never get the value of two.
I am looking keep repeating this.
So if I wanted to increment by a worn once more and take the value to be and the free will can add that
in again.
And then we should get the value taken to free.
And if I wanted to decrement it I could use the negative symbol and we use it twice.
We should get the value of negative one so refresh and Ogo So the value of one gets decremented to be
zero.
And then decremented again to be negative 1.
Such a quick look at art datatypes arm operators in P HP and all See you in the next video or take a
look up chb arrays.